---
speaker: Kenneth Hoffmann and Nathaniel Agharese
affiliation: Stanford
website: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/nathanielagharese"
date: 2023-11-03T12:30:00-0000
location: Skilling Auditorium
location-url: "https://campus-map.stanford.edu/?id=04-550&lat=37.42697371527761&lng=-122.17280664808126&zoom=18&srch=undefined"
title: "Design Principles for Bioinspired Visually Guided Aerial Grasping Robots / Dynamic Modeling of Vine Robots"
abstract: "Kenneth: Humans have long looked to the skies for inspiration to build the newest generation of flying vehicles. Understanding the ability of the peregrine falcon to pursue and capture prey in flight is particularly intriguing because it can help robot engineers design supermaneuverable aerial robots. Recent studies have revealed that the falcon uses biological guidance laws that are finely tuned for their hunting environments. Simultaneously a multi-billion-dollar market opportunity exists for developing counter-UAS (unmanned aerial system) aerial robotic systems, aimed at safeguarding sensitive airspaces from rogue drones. Specific examples include those flown over wildfire firefighting operations. The juxtaposition of these biological studies and the demand for counter-UAS systems presents a unique opportunity to construct biologically inspired aerial grasping robots. These robots can serve as scale models to study the pursuit of falcons in controlled experimental settings while fulfilling the demonstrated need for new forms of counter-UAS systems. During this talk, I will establish design principles for developing bioinspired, visually guided aerial grasping robots.I will delve into the design process of an autonomous aerial grasping robot, which will lay the foundation for establishing the design principles for visually guided aerial grasping robots. The robot is visually controlled by a bioinspired planner that uses similar guidance laws as the biological falcon counterpart. Using this robot, I will explore how simulations and experiments can help uncover the limitations of current assumptions regarding aerial pursuit by falcons. Then, I will discuss how these limitations can further inform planning and control. Finally, I will address how improvements in hardware, sensing, and planning can pave the way for the future of aerial grasping robots, highlighting the key areas of development required to enhance the performance of this emerging category of robot.


Nathaniel: Soft robots, constructed from inherently compliant materials such as fabric or silicone, have become increasingly popular in recent years. Their compliance enables them to navigate complex and cluttered environments to reach spaces that are inaccessible to traditional rigid robots. One category of soft robots, vine robots, can even grow to increase their length by orders of magnitudes. Because of this growth feature, vine robots have shown promise for applications ranging from debris inspection to surgical procedures. If we can increase our fundamental understanding of how these robots move through space, we can further expand their applications, improve the performance of their current uses, and expedite their standard design cycle. To this end, I created a dynamic model to simulate how these robots respond to force inputs to aid in the design of actuators to achieve desired vine robot behaviors."
youtube-code: "TBD"
---
